1.1 09/11/2020

REFLECTION

In today's lesson I learnt the statistical economical advantage of digital skills in the UK.

I enjoyed the array of links and reference points to see design from another's perspective


1.2 10/11/2020

REFLECTION

Today we went over the infrastructure of the web.

I enjoyed the thorough approach of the tutor :)


1.3 11/11/2020

REFLECTION

Today we linked github and VS


1.4 13/11/2020

REFLECTION

Text editing and folder additions in VS uploading to git, overview of extra curricular learning resources and videos.

Appreciate your honesty and relatability Luke


1.5 16/11/2020

REFLECTION

History of HTML, how to view and inspect source, overview of elements and attributes and how to write code using shortcuts and standard practice. 

Tasks included creating new files and folders, coding and pushing new files to Github, using these applications are new to me typically I use Dreamweaver so I appreciate the new persective and new way of working. 

I particularly enjoyed the shortcodes and extensions, thank you for those.

1.6 17/11/2020

REFLECTION

Today we expanded upon HTML content including:
    Lists, both ordered and unordered for text and images
    Line Breaks to create space
    Tables and how used in emails
    Hyperlinks, both relative and absolute paths as text and images directing them to open in the same window or new tabs
    Inserting Email links using the mailto function

Tasks included creating pages demonstrating the above.

Still enjoying the shortcuts, external links and resources as well as your general discussions re. real world applications. Thanks and take care.

1.7 18/11/2020

REFLECTION

Today we focused on CSS, really enjoyed your thorough approach again Luke, breaking it down to selector, property and value was a great way of looking at it objectively instead of just code it helps to respect the individual components, what they contribute and how they relate and communicate. 
Tasks included creating html pages and separate css files as industry best practice as I have learnt too, I do call them css but appreciate calling them styles is more logical and I'll try switch over from that :) We then changed various values to show the interaction with the html page changing.
We began looking at specific selectors divs and classes. Looking forward to next lesson. 

1.8 19/11/2020

REFLECTION

On our 8th session we focused on CSS, using ID's and classes and understood css rules are applied in either cascading order, specificity, and top-down read from the CSS sheet in terms of duplications. We also looked at shortcodes, shortcodes are excellent thank you.

We looked at divs, classes and how HTML5 have replaced some commonly used design elements with inspiration from newspapers to create new elements. Very pleased - much better.
We also looked at placements using the box model including inline and block elements, padding, margin and borders.

Might be useful to explain best practice for knowing which size units to use in terms of text and box sizes, I've had experience with all: ems, pixels and percents... perhaps your excellent way of explaining logic and real world examples could go into best practice and why for example in html emails vs flexible websites, would you mix units in the same website, or stick to percents for flexibility, or are separate CSS rules still written per device size with max-width pixels etc. Keeping up with changing trends is vast. Thank you.

1.9 20/11/2020

REFLECTION

Today we recapped on CSS, then moved on to positioning. Exploring absolute and relative positioning.

We had tasks involving creating divs with classes including margins, padding, borders. Discussed how to condense and order the CSS for best practice separating our with commas.

We also discussed the z-index layering of object as an option but a preference of placement via positioning. We had tasks involving creating divs positioned with parent and child elements involving text and images and styling those and exploring how changes reflect in the visual structure of the page.

Again, enjoyed the thorough approach to teaching. Thanks

1.10 23/11/20

REFLECTION
Discussed that floats work in normal flow, can float right and left, or override with clear. Looked at bootstrap as a shortcut and carried out tasks involving creating elements with floats, building a bootstrap page and building a webpage with some typical features and aesthetics via css and google fonts. Really enjoyed extended session re. media queries, thank you so much for doing that.

1.11 24/11/20

REFLECTION
Im probably titling these reflections incorrectly however it helps me keep track of the sesions in order :) 
Today we looke dinto Javascript, how it works in the browser and is used for dynamism and interaction ie. lightoxes, cookies and dropdowns, it is also utilsied by Adobe, Goggle maps and the gaming industry etc.
We completed tasks invovling creating HTML pages linked with JS files and paired their output using Goggle web dev tools via the console feature. 
We explored alerts, write and console logs and created tasks exploring strings, numbers, names.
I enjoyed the explanations and breakdowns in their simplistic terms again, I also enjoyed the challenge of the takeaway task and the absence of help made it oddly all the more fun :)  

1.12 25/11/20

Today we looked at Javascript functions as a repeatable instruction to carry out tasks. We used camel casing to structure our names and used parameters to change its use. We used if, else if, or and and statements. We outputted sentences, calculated percentages and also looked at switch statements.

I enjoyed expanding my knowledge of javacript and enjoyed the class and company. I might enjoy it more so to know what this module is working toward... speculating as to whether will result in adding contact forms / surveys / slideshows / lightboxes to our website or if building an app version of the website via javascript for example? 